Welcome back.
Let's review what we've just learned about the module pattern using an iffy we're able to create a scope
a function scope that mimics well a module scope that is we can just wrap an entire JavaScript file
using this notation of an iffy and everything inside of it will run because we're immediately invoking
it and will only return what we need to a variable that will be accessible on the global scope.
So this is a global variable the code that defines the module is wrapped in this function and the clear
benefit of this instead of what we had before is that we're only revealing one variable polluting the
global namespace just once with this variable and we're hiding everything else in everything that we
want to make public.
We can attach it to this variable which is an object and attach different properties and methods to
it.
And this is great for maintain ability right by definition a module is self-contained now a well designed
module like this could just contain functionality and also lower the dependencies on other parts of
the code base we can import whatever we need from the global variable space in here so that inside of
this function instead of looking up the global scope we can just look at our parameters that we import
it from the global scope and use those instead so that if we do anything like modifying J query inside
of here it won't affect the other parts of the code updating a single module is much easier when this
module is decoupled from the other pieces of code if we had a fight module here and while we needed
to fix some things inside of it it's good to know that it won't affect the outside parts so that we
can have a team of engineers working on this module and another team of engineers working on another
module.
And as long as they don't break the public API that is we always expect fight to take in a character
and character 2 and return something that we agree upon then we can work separately.
And finally the other great thing about this is the idea of re usability right instead of copying code
over and over these useful functions can be now shared so that I can use the fight function in other
parts of the code and instead of having to write the same functionality in multiple places we have just
one place in our code that has the fight function and if we ever need to fix it we know exactly where
to go instead of changing the code in multiple places.
All right.
So module pattern is great.
We're all done.
We don't need to learn anything else.
Well not really.
There's two main problems with this approach that we see.
One is that we technically are still polluting the global namespace fight module is still technically
a variable on the global namespace.
So that in here if we had a script that was called a fight module and we refreshes we'll fight module
now gets overridden.
So we've minimized the number of global variables but we can still have name clashes.
And then the other issue and a lot of people who have worked with JavaScript in the past know this issue
because it was a big headache is that we don't necessarily know all the dependencies so we have to make
sure that the order of the script tags is correct.
For example if I remove this J query code and put it at the bottom of the page that is after we actually
use the J query module or in here we using the J.
Mountain module before we actually tell the browser hey this is what J careers if I see this and refresh
while I get an error J.
Query is not defined because I'm using J querying here and the computer does doesn't really know anything
about it because it was declared after and I've worked on projects before where we had close to a hundred
script tax and you had to make sure that the script tags were in the right order so that those scripts
that depending on other scripts where Wall declared after so that we had these variables available to
them.
How do we solve this.
And for that we had two major solutions.
So let's find out what those were in the next video.